# Fuzzy Logic

## Overview

This is the booking platform for [Fuzzy Logic](https://www.fzzy.co.uk), an improv company I founded. I built it when I wanted to run a workshop, and took the opportunity to stretch my full stack development skills instead of using a third-party ticketing service.

The site:

- Displays upcoming workshops
- Handles user account registration and authentication
- Processes payments
- Updates bookings after payment
- Shows upcoming bookings in user accounts

It uses:

- Next.js + TypeScript (front-end + back-end)
- Tailwind (styling)
- Supabase (database and auth)
- Cloudflare Turnstile (CAPTCHA)
- Stripe (payments)
- Husky (Git hooks)
- Jest + React Testing Library (unit testing)
- Manual testing checklist (critical data flows)
- Vercel (deployment)

## Development process

I initially designed and developed the fully functional site in just under three months. This version launched in May 2025, and successfully processed £000s in user payments.

The codebase, however, was less polished than I wanted; code was repeated. I therefore revisited the project a few months later and refactored the site. This included:

### Organisation

- Dividing several pages (e.g. `/workshops`, `/account`) into server components for data fetching, and client wrappers for rendering
- Splitting large components (such as the navbar) into modular components
- Breaking large functions into smaller functions with single responsibilities (e.g. Stripe `getCheckoutSession` action)
- Extracting repeated logic to separate functions or hooks (e.g. `usePasswordStrength` hook, Supabase error handling in auth actions)
- Organising `/app` using route groups
- Dividing `/components` into subdirectories
- Moving all actions and hooks into dedicated folders in `/src`

### Styling

- Moving most styling from `globals.css` into component files, including creating a design system of UI components to ensure consistency across common elements (Text, Button, ListItem, etc.)

### TypeScript

- Extracting TypeScript interface definitions (e.g. Workshop, Booking, Student) to separate files and importing them where needed, to prevent inconsistencies created by defining types ad hoc within components
- Adding Database type generated by Supabase CLI to Supabase createClient functions
- Creating util functions to consistently convert raw data from Supabase into more convenient format, and adding types for the resulting data
- Adding return types to most functions definitions (apart from very short functions where this is obvious)

### Validation

- Apply consistent backend form validation using Zod

### Developer experience

- Adding automated pre-commit linting and testing via Husky to ensure code quality
- Enforcing conventional commits with commitlint

I found the resulting site much easier to understand and maintain, with the code being more readable, and the flow of data through the app much more understandable.

### Next steps

The next steps are mostly around testing. Currently, while some tests (such as those for AuthContext and auth-related pages) check important data flows, overall testing focusses too heavily on component rendering, with insufficient coverage of logic. Mocking is also handled inconsistently across the tests, and integration testing is handled manually. I am currently improving my understanding of best practices around testing, and plan to add new tests and refactor existing ones to address these issues over the next few months.

## How it works

Some documentation on how data flows in the app, for my benefit in maintaining the project as much as yours in reading about it 🙃.

### Supabase data fetching

The site fetches data from Supabase using the three clients in `/utils/supabase`:

- **admin.ts:** Uses createClient function with secret key, for backend admin
  - Used by Stripe webhook
- **browserClient.ts:** Uses createBrowserClient function with publishable key, for data fetching in client components
  - Used by auth context
- **serverClient.ts:** Uses createServerClient function with publishable key, for data fetching in server components
  - Used by:
    - About, Account, Workshops, and WorkshopDetails pages
    - `/auth/confirm` and `/auth/callback` routes
    - Mailing list, Stripe, and auth actions
    - Supabase `updateSession` middleware function

### Auth data flows

Authentication forms call actions from `/actions/auth`, which in turn call the relevant Supabase auth function:

#### Signup

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Signup page**<br>User submits form...<br>Calls signup action from...] --> B[**Auth actions**<br>Signup action validates form data...<br>Calls Supabase signUp function...]
    B --> |Success, redirect to...| C[**Auth success page**<br>User prompted to check inbox for confirmation email...]
    B --> |Error, remain on...| D[**Signup page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

#### Signup email confirmation

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Confirmation email**<br>User clicks confirmation link...] --> B[**Auth confirmation route**<br>Verifies one-time password...]
    B --> |Success, redirect to...| C[**Home page**]
    B --> |Error, redirect to...| D[**Error page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

#### Login

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Login page**<br>User submits form...<br>Calls login action from...] --> B[**Auth actions**<br>Login action validates form data...<br>Calls Supabase signInWithPassword function...]
    B --> |Success, action returns success indicator to...| C[**Login page**<br>Checks whether login is part of workshop booking attempt...]
    C --> | If so redirect user to... | D[**Stripe checkout session**]
    C --> | Else redirect user to... | E[**Home page**]
    B --> |Error, remain on...| F[**Login page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

#### Reset

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Reset password page**<br>User submits form...<br>Calls resetPassword action imported from...] --> B[**Auth actions**<br>resetPassword action validates form data...<br>Calls Supabase resetPasswordForEmail function...]
    B --> |Success, send password reset email to user...<br>User follows link in email to...| C[**Auth callback route**<br>Checks for Supabase code in search params...]
    C --> |If code, exchange for Supabase session, redirect to...| D[**Update password page**]
    C --> |If no code, redirect to... | E[**Error page**<br>User shown relevant error message]
    B --> |Error, remain on...| F[**Reset password page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

#### Update

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Update password page**<br>User submits form...<br>Calls updatePassword action from...] --> B[**Auth actions**<br>updatePassword action validates form data...<br>Calls Supabase updateUser function...]
    B --> |Success, redirect to...| C[**Auth success page**<br>User shown relevant success message]
    B --> |Error, remain on| D[**Update password page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

### Turnstile CAPTCHA verification

The signup, login, and reset password pages use Cloudflare Turnstile to perform CAPTCHA checks.

The Turnstile component rendered on each of these pages accesses the site key as an environment variable. When the user passes CAPTCHA, this component generates a token which is submitted along with the form data.

When the form is submitted and the relevant auth action called, this token is passed to the corresponding Supabase auth function. This function verifies the token with the Cloudflare Siteverify API, using the Cloudflare secret key stored as an environment variable on Supabase.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Auth page**<br>User loads page...<br>Turnstile component performs CAPTCHA check using site key...] --> |Calls...| B[**Auth action**<br>Calls relevant Supabase auth function...]
    B --> C[**Supabase server-side**<br>Attempts to verify Turnstile token with Cloudflare using secret key...]
    C --> |Success, auth action completes, redirect to...| D[**Next page**]
    C --> |Error, remain on...| E[**Auth page**<br>User shown relevant error message]
    A --> |Error, remain on...| E[**Auth page**<br>User shown relevant error message]

```

### Auth context

The `/contexts/AuthContext` file exports a context provider component (`AuthContext`), and a `useAuth` function, which returns a `user`, and `isLoggedIn` and `isLoading` boolean variables. Other files which need to use the `AuthContext` call the `useAuth` function.

This context is used by the update page, and the Layout, global-error, and Header components, and the `useWorkshopCheckout` hook.

### Stripe data flows

Stripe sessions are created from the Workshops or WorkshopDetails pages by calling the `getCheckoutSession` action from `/actions/stripe`. This begins a Stripe checkout session, passes on success and cancellation URLs, and creates a new "in progress" workshop booking in Supabase.

On completion or expiration of the checkout session, Stripe sends the corresponding event to the `/api/webhooks/stripe` endpoint, which updates the matching booking in Supabase accordingly.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
%%{init: {'theme':'neutral'}}%%
    A[**Workshops/WorkshopDetails page**<br>User clicks Book now...<br>Calls getCheckoutSession action from...] --> B[**Stripe actions**<br>Checks for remaining places...<br>Checks for existing checkout session...]
    B --> |Success, create in progress booking, redirect to...| C[**Stripe checkout page**]
    C --> |User completes payment, user redirected to...| D[**Checkout success page**]
    C --> |User completes payment, Stripe sends completion event to...| E[**Stripe webhook endpoint**<br>Updates matching Supabase booking to confirmed OR deletes booking]
        C --> |User does not complete payment, Stripe sends expiry event to...| E
    C --> |User does not complete payment, user redirected to...| F[**Checkout cancellation page**]

```
